Durban mayor Zandile Gumede is at the heart of a damning internal council investigation into how the city s police wasted R4m in hiring more than 50 top-end vehicles.Of the fleet eight cars including a Toyota Fortuner and a BMW 320 for use as escort vehicles were "allocated" for her protection while she was the ANC s mayoral candidate ahead of the August 2016 local government elections. At the time Gumede sat on the powerful decision-making executive committee and was chairwoman of the health safety and social services committee meaning that the Metro Police often fell under her ambit. She was also the ANC s eThekwini regional chair.The report which was leaked to TMG Digital and which slates officials and slams them for using Metro Police vehicles for the security of unnamed municipal office-bearers it found that the cars were "never used for the mayor s protection". However Zwakele Mncwango the leader of the DA in KwaZulu-Natal and in the eThekwini caucus was adamant Gumede benefited from the use of the vehicles, and called for an independent probe into the allegations to dig out the truth.The report into "multiple irregularities" in the hiring of vehicles by the council s police force compiled by the internal audit and risk assurance service was part of a review of the city s fleet and how thousands of vehicles belonging to the municipality are put to use. Investigators found that officials had "lied" to procure the cars and even invoked Gumede s name to ensure the deal was pushed through.As part of the probe auditors homed in on a set of cars hired for Metro Police use as the force established a "crowd management unit" to curb burgeoning levels of civil unrest within the city limits ahead of local government elections last year. The unrest included service delivery protests.While the police force was in the process of establishing its own riot unit a list of vehicles required was submitted. This list included a water cannon and armoured Nyalas. However auditors found that what eventually arrived was vastly different. "There is a clear difference, without reasons, between the motivated requirements for the MOT [multi-operational team] and what was subsequently ordered " the report reads.Investigations revealed that of the 51 vehicles hired eight had been allocated to the "candidate mayor" being a single cab 4X4 bakkie [equipment and surveillance]; two double cab bakkies [rural deployment and escort vehicles]; three BMW 320 and Audi A3 sedans [escorts and back-up]; one Ford Ranger [deployment in inaccessible areas]; and one Toyota Fortuna 3 D4D ["for the candidate mayor"].The report states there is evidence of vehicles being used for the protection of the mayor and other council office bearers "which is not a function of the Metro Police". While it does not name any of the officials the investigators found this to be "in violation of the South African Police Service Act of 1998".However the report appears to absolve Gumede of blame in the multi-million rand saga. "An estimated total of eight vehicles, supposedly requested to only provide security and VIP protection to the mayor ... were never used for the mayor s protection " it reads.It also claims that officials used Gumede s name to breach supply chain management protocols; coerced other officials to breach council regulations "while dropping the mayor s name as if such instructions were given [by Gumede]"; and used some of the vehicles for their own "personal use".&nbsp;But Mncwango is not convinced. He told TMG Digital that he confronted Gumede about her alleged use of Metro Police vehicles for her own security. "Although I cannot be specific as to which ones [she used] but even now, if you come to City Hall you will see unbranded [VW] GTIs among her convoy. I raised the issue at a council meeting in May asking why she was sitting on such a report if she was serious about eradicating irregular expenditure " he said.Mncwango who has misgivings with some of the findings in the report called for an independent investigation. "This one is only based on Metro Police. However the key question is whether it was necessary for her to have so much security. Her continual withholding of the report shows dishonesty and her perpetuation of irregular expenditure. It s our responsibility to hold officials and councilors to account and to protect public funds from wastage. Why then is she hiding the report?"Over and above the murky mayoral cavalcade the report highlights a raft of transgressions of normal procurement processes and an alleged abuse of the hired cars. "The contract value was R4,086,055.26 for a period of six months and most of the vehicles were used beyond six months " it found.Auditors also found that during this period of hire the Metro Police racked up a petrol bill of nearly R1m. "In view of the findings it appears that the hiring of vehicles for Metro Police by City Fleet was marked by multiple irregularities, including dishonesty and blatant abuse of authority to over-ride controls. All payments made are unauthorised and irregular, since the contract cited is invalid. The hired vehicles have allegedly been used by police members for their own businesses or private use. Some have been used to travel as far as Johannesburg outside of council use " it reads.Auditors recommend that Metro Police officers be prohibited from providing security for councilors and key officials.Gumede the Metro Police and the eThekwini municipality were approached for comment. Municipal spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa responded saying, "The issues raised are being investigated. The municipality is not in a position to comment on a pending investigation."TMG Digital