Police Minister Fikile Mbalula plans to introduce a firearms-control bill in Parliament.Mbalula was appointed police minister 25 days ago and has already sought to shake up the department by removing Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza, vowing to get rid of rogue police officers and returning to the populist view adopted by former minister Bheki Cele that police take a hard line on crime. This society is highly armed there are people who have guns who are not supposed to have guns, he told journalists in Pretoria on Tuesday. Police must be ruthless against those who are armed and want to undermine the law and order of this country. If they shoot you, shoot back and shoot to kill and don t allow yourself to be killed, the minister said in a message to police officers.Mbalula was briefing media after a strategic planning session that was meant to guide his first 100 days in office.He told police officers that the law would protect them when they were protecting citizens. He also said he wanted to work with corporate SA to create a cellphone application to help citizens report crime. We will launch this to ensure we respond to these criminals, Mbalula said.The minister has had his hands full with Ntlemeza, who is refusing to leave office after a high court ruling that his appointment is invalid.On Monday, Ntlemeza arrived at the Hawks office in Pretoria and drove off in a government-owned vehicle.On Tuesday, Mbalula confirmed that Ntlemeza had returned the vehicle.He said that if Ntlemeza felt he had been treated unfairly, he should approach the courts. There is no war here. There is no standoff. We must not play gimmicks. If people feel entitled and feel they have been dealt with unfairly, they must approach the courts. On Monday, Ntlemeza s lawyers said they would be going to the High Court in Pretoria to seek an urgent interdict preventing Mbalula from interfering with Ntlemeza s right to return to work.Mbalula warned police officers still taking instructions from Ntlemeza that they were doing so illegally. He was aware of illegal operations being conducted by officers loyal to Ntlemeza, he said. This illegality going on in the country must come to an end. We can t allow rogue police officers using state resources to undermine the state we can t allow that, he said.