Battered and bruised Western Cape premier Helen Zille remained unrepentant on Tuesday and appeared to continue to justify her controversial tweets about colonialism. Zille sparked anger earlier in March with her tweeted comments, including this one: "For those claiming legacy of colonialism was ONLY negative&sbquo; think of our independent judiciary&sbquo; transport infrastructure&sbquo; piped water etc."During a highly charged debate about her tweets, which was called by the ANC in the provincial legislature on Tuesday, Zille offered an apology to anyone who genuinely thought she was "praising, defending or justifying colonialism". "I apologised unreservedly and stressed that this was not so. I do so again," she said.However, Zille went on to refer to various leaders, including Nelson Mandela, and authors who have previously highlighted some of the "positive" aspects of colonialism. "I have written before about how our own former president Nelson Mandela repeatedly discussed this issue. Today I quote from a speech he gave at Magdalene College Cambridge on May 2 2001.""&lsquo;Britain&rsquo;, [Mandela] said, &lsquo;was the main colonial power in our history ... much of our traditional systems and institutions still carry the scars of the distortions inflicted by colonial rule. At the same time, so much of what we have to build on in the competitive modern world is also the result of what we could gain from that interaction and engagement with Britain. Our indigenous understanding of the rule of law, viz that not kings or chiefs but the institutions of law and democracy are supreme, was strengthened and enhanced by our reference to the British understanding of that concept. If there were one, single, positive aspect that I had to identify from the history of colonial contact between our two countries, it would be that of the educational benefits our country derived from it ," Zille said, reading the Mandela quote amid continuous heckling and jeering by ANC MPs.Zille also referred to a history textbook, written in the 21st century, which has been used in schools from 2004 to the present. Its lead author is prominent academic and historian, Dr Maanda Mulaudzi. Zille said the book devotes a significant section to the devastating effects of colonialism in Africa and SA, "And rightly so ... And then it asks an interesting question: Did colonisation have any positive effects? "She continued: "And I quote: Although most historians emphasise the negative effects that colonisation had on Africa, some also show that it did have some positive effects ... colonisation also brought with it Western education, medicine and technology, as well as language, cultural, and sporting links that have enabled Africa to interact with the rest of the world. Part of the legacy of colonisation has been the development of Africa into a network of modern, independent states .""Why have we tolerated this textbook in our schools for so long? Will we demand that Dr Mulaudzi be fired?" asked Zille. "Of course not. So why the political tsunami over what I said? I leave it to members of this house, and the public, to draw their own conclusions."Speculation is rife that DA leader Mmusi Maimane and other senior party members want Zille to be removed from her position. The feeling seems to be that her continued presence could hurt the party at the polls in 2019. The former Cape Town mayor is due to face a disciplinary process in the coming weeks.The ANC has been pushing for Zille s immediate recall following her controversial comments on social media. Opening the debate, the party s provincial leader Khaya Magaxa said: "Colonialism did not bring anything to the African continent, instead it took it took our resources, our dignity and our humanity.""In the words of the late president of Mozambique, Samora Machel, Colonialism is a crime against humanity; there is no humane colonialism; there is no democratic colonialism; there is no non-exploitative colonialism ... The colonialist-loving Zille must resign as the premier of the Western Cape. She must Go," said Magaxa.