MPs on Tuesday expressed frustration with the board at the Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa) and demanded it be investigated.The Prasa board and management were hauled over the coals for being "corrupt" and for their handling of former acting CEO Collins Letsoalo&rsquo;s firing.The board appeared before the transport portfolio committee to brief it on the status of Metrorail.Letsoalo, who was at the meeting, accused the board of lying over his 350% salary increase.MPs from all parties did not mince their words in calling for a comprehensive inquiry into the passenger rail agency.ANC MP Thivhali Mulaudzi said he was not surprised board chairman Popo Molefe was not present."There s no governance in Prasa to make it clear. You are accompanied by 10 members who are acting and they re senior members. It means you are not doing anything as a board there " said Mulaudzi.On the issue of the 350% salary increase for Letsoalo he said he was "very surprised" to hear Molefe say the board was not aware of this."Every time when we sit here instead of talking about the way forward for Prasa, we are just talking about problems corruption . As a member of the committee through the chairperson how about this board be suspended because we said long before that this board must fall," said Mulaudzi.He said Parliament had to appoint a "comprehensive inquiry" and force board members to pay back "money that you played with recklessly on that board".ANC MP Goodwill Radebe said he saw no difference between what happened to the SABC and what was happening at Prasa."But it s worse; we re appropriating money to Prasa every financial year. Until this board is out I m not going to vote any more for Prasa. That I promise you. I said before that this board is corrupt and I m not excusing myself and not going to apologise. The board is corrupt " said Radebe.He called for the board s dissolution and an inquiry."In that inquiry we must also invite the SIU (Special Investigating Unit) people should be arrested because they know very well what they ve done " he said.DA MP Manny de Freitas said the whole Prasa saga was like a soap opera."This is very disappointing and embarrassing for SA " De Freitas said.Board member Tefetso Phitsane said he was disappointed by the manner in which MPs had treated the board. "I m doing so much but not being rewarded. I m losing so much."Another board member William Steenkamp told the committee that they once took 25% of the money due to them. "It s painful to be told you re corrupt."TMG Digital