For seven years, residents of the Umngeni municipality in the heart of the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands have waited for a full-time municipal manager to lead their council into a brighter future. Their wait isn&rsquo;t over.Sibusiso Sithole&sbquo; who was to take over the reins on Monday&sbquo; March 13&sbquo; was their beacon of hope. But exactly a week before he was due to take up the post&sbquo; his life was cut short in a hail of bullets. The Richmond municipal manager lay dead outside his vehicle in an apparent hit.While his family&sbquo; friends and political comrades &mdash; including police minister Nathi Nhleko and acting national police commissioner Kgomotso Phahlane &mdash; mourn him&sbquo; his death has left an unfilled vacancy at the Umgeni municipal council&sbquo; and its residents back at square one.The small council hasn&rsquo;t had a full-time head since 2010&sbquo; when the troubled Dumisani Vilakazi was dismissed following a string of scandals and allegations of maladministration. A former senior municipal office bearer recounted on Tuesday how they struggled repeatedly to get a municipal manager over the past seven years, but it seems to be a job nobody really wants."Following Vilakazi&rsquo;s departure an official acted until the arrival of Nathi Mthethwa from Mooi-Mpofana [municipality] in 2011&sbquo;" said the official. However&sbquo; Mthethwa withdrew at the 11th hour citing job opportunities elsewhere. "Again someone acted until the municipality secured the services of Dr Mpilo Ngubane&sbquo;" the contact said.Ngubane only stayed for one year, leaving in 2014 after getting a job at the eThekwini Municipality&sbquo; where he is now the head of the municipal academy.The next candidate for the top job was soon identified. Recognising the crisis that was unfolding&sbquo; the KwaZulu-Natal department of co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) seconded former Ugu municipal manager Khayo Mpungose."A council resolution was taken and Mpungose accepted the offer. However&sbquo; just before he could start&sbquo; he called [former] mayor Mbali Myeni to say he was no longer available as his company had received a massive contract and that the municipality would not be able to afford his salary&sbquo;" the source said.At the time former mayor Myeni s five-year term at the political helm was coming to an end so time was of the essence. Cogta again seconded an official Gabi Gumbi-Masilela a former Municipal Demarcation Board CEO and former provincial housing head of department but also in an acting capacity. During a short-lived tenure Gumbi-Masilela had her vehicle stolen from her home; it was later found on the Mozambican border.She left the council and an internal official Sandile Buthelezi head of corporate services acted in her place as the council hunted for Gumbi-Masilela s replacement. Early this year, the council appointed Sithole who was due to start next week.On Wednesday, Buthelezi said in a statement: "The municipality is saddened and shocked by the passing of the incoming municipal manager, as we were looking forward to having him at the helm of the municipality s administration. A special sitting of council is scheduled for Monday to discuss a way forward in filling the municipal manager s post."TMG Digital