The federal executive of the DA has decided to institute formal disciplinary proceedings against Western Cape premier Helen Zille for her comments on twitter last month emphasising the positive aspects of colonialism.The tweet set off a storm of criticism and opposition as they were seen as a justification for apartheid and colonialist oppression.The meeting of the federal executive Sunday resolved almost unanimously that disciplinary proceedings should take place as Zille had acted in a manner which had brought the party into disrepute.The party s federal legal commission will conduct the inquiry to determine whether Zille violated the provisions of the DA constitution which forbids members from publicly opposing the party s principles or policies outside of party structures;&nbsp; deliberately acting in a way which impacts negatively on the image or performance of the party; and/or bringing the good name of the party into disrepute or harming the interests of the party.The federal executive based its decision on recommendations of the party's legal commission headed by MP Glynnis Breytenbach which found that Zille had a case to answer. Zille will continue as premier while the probe is under way.DA leader Mmusi Maimane said at media briefing that the decision was not an easy one to take personally but was necessary in the interests of the party. My job as the leader of the DA is to grow our party and advance our project of building a non-racial, prosperous democracy. Nothing is more important than this project, and no one is bigger than it. I must protect this project, and cannot tolerate any action or behaviour by any person which undermines or harms it. It is my belief that Ms Zille s assertions did just that, and therefore require action. Maimane said Zille s alleged violation of the DA s constitution was not confined to her original tweet but also included a series of tweets and comments she made subsequently that exacerbated and amplified the original tweet. He stressed that the DA was a party committed to due process and the rule of law. That means everyone is equal before the party s constitution, and it means that in every case, due process will be followed. Maimane also announced that he would lead a march on Luthuli House, the headquarters of the ANC on Friday to call for the ANC to support a no confidence in President Jacob Zuma which could come before Parliament in the coming weeks if National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete gives her approval. He will be meeting leaders of all opposition parties on Monday to agree on the way forward in removing Zuma from office.&nbsp;&nbsp;