Washington Building of single-family homes in the US fell in March as their construction in the Midwest recorded its biggest decline in three years, likely reflecting bad weather.Housing starts declined 6.8% to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.22-million units, the US Commerce Department said on Tuesday. February s starts were revised up to a 1.30-million-unit pace from the previously reported 1.29-million-rate.Economists polled by Reuters had forecast ground-breaking activity falling to a 1.25-million-unit pace last month. Home-building was up 9.2% compared to March 2016.Construction in February was boosted by unseasonably warm temperatures, but temperatures dropped in March and a storm lashed the Northeast and Midwest regions, which could account for the drop in home-building last month.Single-family home-building, which accounts for the largest share of the residential housing market, fell 6.2% to a 821,000-unit-pace last month. Single-family starts in the Midwest declined 35%, the largest drop since January 2014, to their lowest level since August 2015. Single-family starts in the Northeast were unchanged. They rose 3.2% in the South, but fell 5.5% in the West.Last month, starts for the volatile multi-family housing segment dropped 7.9% to a 394,000 unit-pace. Pointing to underlying strength in the housing market, however, building permits increased 3.6%, driven by a 13.8% surge in the multi-family segment.While single-family permits fell 1.1%, they were not too far from the more than nine-year high reached in February.A tightening labour market, which is generating steady wage growth, is underpinning the housing market. The sector, however, remains constrained by a dearth of properties available for sale. Builders have, however, failed to bridge the gap, citing a range of problems including shortages of labour and land, as well as rising material prices. On Monday, a survey showed home-builders confidence slipped in April from a near 12-year high in March. Still, measures of current sales and sales expectations remained at lofty levels.Reuters