Cabinet will soon be asked to approve the criminalisation of vandalism in schools in a bid to curb the destruction of public property and theft, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said on Monday.Last year, at least 30 schools in Limpopo&rsquo;s Vuwani area were damaged as a drawn-out protest by residents against the creation of a new municipality turned violent. Elsewhere across SA computers and other school equipment are frequently reported stolen from unguarded premises, especially in townships and rural areas.Motshekga said it was becoming common in certain provinces to burn schools during service delivery protests and this was harming the education sector. "Schools are assets for communities," said Motshekga, speaking to the media following a lekgotla with the Council of Education Ministers (CEM), made up of provincial education members of the executive committee, along with the minister and her deputy.Motshekga said the council had also looked at the national policy on the prevention and management of student pregnancies, reporting that this had become a major issue. She said school girls cannot face discrimination on the basis of pregnancy and that those who fell pregnant were encouraged to return to school after giving birth to prevent them dropping out and having more children.According to the 2015 Annual School Survey, an estimated 15,470 students fell pregnant in that year, with some of the girls being in primary school. Most of those who fell pregnant were between the ages of 14 and 18.Motshekga dispelled the myth that young girls were falling pregnant to access social grants. The biggest problem lay with the "sugar daddies syndrome", where young girls were falling prey to older men, she said. "Even teachers are predators," the minister said. "Adults outside the schools are impregnating children and there are also incidents of incest reported."Motshekga also spoke about the planned implementation of focus schools that would form the third stream of the South African education system. There are currently only two focus schools in Gauteng. These types of schools provide education with a specialised focus on a talent, such as sports and creative arts. Such schools are required to improve access to specialised subjects, as well as improve the performance for learners in these subject areas from grades 10 to 12.Motshekga said the CEM had approved guidelines for focus schools which are meant to standardise the process of establishing such schools and provide a legislative framework for the sector. The minister said the schools had the advantage of connecting learners with the world of work while igniting entrepreneurial skills and providing opportunities for further and higher education.Motshekga expressed optimism over the "second chance matric programme", which was first established in 2016. The first phase of the programme saw more than 92,000 candidates writing exams towards their National Senior Certificates at 5,928 centres around the country.Motshekga said the supplementary exams were improving and highlighted that older persons who had not completed their matric in more than 10 years were utilising the programme to finish their high school education. Registration for the second phase closes on March 15.