Rotterdam &mdash; Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte clashed with his main rival, anti-Islam MP Geert Wilders, as they laid out starkly different visions in an election campaign fired up by a hot row with Turkey.Two days before Wednesday&rsquo;s crucial general election, the Netherlands is mired in a war of words with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, providing fodder for anti-migration Wilders."You are being taken hostage by Erdogan. Close the Dutch borders," Wilders told Rutte, as tempers flared in the 30-minute head-to-head TV debate on Monday."That&rsquo;s a totally fake solution," Rutte shot back "You want Nexit. You want the Netherlands out of Europe. You know what it will cost. Don&rsquo;t do it."Wilders, crusading against "Islamisation" of the country, promises to shut Dutch borders to Muslim immigrants, close mosques and ban sales of the Koran. He also wants to follow the British and pull the country out of the EU, which it helped found.Polls suggest Wednesday&rsquo;s results may be close, with Rutte&rsquo;s Liberal VVD returning as the largest party in the 150-seat parliament by a whisker.The elections are being watched closely as a barometer for far-right and populist parties in Europe with elections this year looming in France and Germany."I want the Netherlands to be the first country that stops this trend of the wrong sort of populism," Rutte told reporters.Monday&rsquo;s debate, plus Tuesday&rsquo;s round table with eight political party leaders, might sway the poll, said an analyst, who says about 60% of Dutch voters remain undecided.Wilders delighted in the weekend chaos when riot police dispersed hundreds of protesters waving Turkish flags in Rotterdam, angered by a Dutch government ban on their ministers.Rutte appealed for calm, but rejected Turkey&rsquo;s demand that he apologise for expelling one of its ministers who tried to attend the pro-Ankara rally in Rotterdam.In one exchange, Rutte said it was time to wind the crisis down, but Wilders said: "We must answer back. We must expel the Turkish ambassador and his staff."Rutte said: "There s a difference between tweeting from the sofa and running a country. If you are in charge of a country you need to take sensible measures."The VVD is predicted to return as the biggest party in the 150-seat parliament with 23 to 27 seats, according to the latest polls. As that is far less than the 40 VVD MPs in the outgoing lower chamber Rutte would be scrambling to cobble together a viable coalition, perhaps including four or five parties to reach the 76-seat majority.After weeks of flirting at the top of the polls, Wilders has seen his ratings slip, and may now come second with 19-23 seats, polls suggest. But that would still make him a voice hard to ignore.Rutte repeated his vow never to work with Wilders again, accusing him of causing problems for the country after the bottle-blond MP triggered the collapse of an earlier coalition in 2012.Telling Wilders he was making "extreme statements" about Moroccan-Dutch citizens, Rutte insisted: "I will not co-operate with such a party. No, never, no."Wilders retorted that he was standing up against "the liars and the legislators", and urged Dutch voters to take the Netherlands back for themselves. "Chase this man away and put me in the prime minister s office."There are 28 parties wooing the 12.9-million voters. Observers warn that forming a coalition will probably take months and demand tough compromises.Monika Sie Dhian Ho, director of the Clingendael Institute, said Wilders s "ideology might be negative, it s anti-Muslims, it s anti-EU, it s anti-immigration, it s anti-refugees. But it is a clear ideology that addresses concerns of a substantial group of the Dutch. So it is here to stay."AFP