The JSE is expected to introduce three new indices to replace the current SA property index (Sapy) within the next three to four months, an eagerly awaited move which industry players believe will further boost the size and stature of listed real estate as an asset class.The JSE embarked on a process to improve existing property indices two years ago as the general view was that the benchmark Sapy no longer accurately represented the South African property sector. The Sapy was launched in 2003 at a time when property still formed a small portion of the JSE&rsquo;s overall market cap. Back then, the sector was highly illiquid and not widely covered by investment analysts.However, 14 years on the market cap of the sector has ballooned to nearly R500bn and property is now widely recognised as a major asset class alongside general equities, bonds and cash. Moreover, the rush of new property listings in recent years has pushed the JSE&rsquo;s bevy of property counters to close to 50. Yet the Sapy only includes the JSE&rsquo;s 20 largest property counters by market cap.The geographical spread of property stocks has also changed dramatically in recent years with at least 20 of the JSE&rsquo;s property counters today being pure offshore plays. That&rsquo;s a far cry from 2003 when the JSE had only one offshore property listing &mdash; Liberty International (now known as Intu Properties). However, most of the JSE&rsquo;s offshore listings are currently excluded from the Sapy as only those with a primary listing (not secondary) are included.The JSE&rsquo;s proposal released at the end of 2016 suggests that the Sapy is replaced by three new indices &mdash; namely the SA Reit Index; the Tradable Property Index; and the All Property Index. The SA Reit index will include only JSE-listed companies that are classified as South African-based real estate investment trusts, or Reits. This index would be similar to the current Sapy but exclude all dual listed offshore companies, such as New Europe Property Investments, Rockcastle, MAS Real Estate and Stenprop as well as developers such as Attacq.The Tradable Property Index would likely include the 13 most liquid property companies on the JSE regardless of where the primary listing is. The third proposed index, the All Property Index (Alpi), will include all property companies that are in the All Share Index (currently 30), including both foreign and local property companies, Reits and developers. The foreign companies will be included based on SWIX weightings.Mark Randall, manager of indices &amp; valuations at the JSE, said earlier this week that the JSE has now concluded its process of market consultation. "Once we have considered the market&rsquo;s feedback, we will incorporate that into our changes and announce the final implementation date.However, industry players, who generally welcome the proposed changes to the Sapy, believe the new indices are likely to be introduced as early as mid-year.Mohamed Kalla, director of Sesfikile Capital, says the JSE has taken positive steps to realign the Sapy and make the index more relevant. "We look forward to the potential universe growing and allowing us to apply our skill set towards generating returns across a wider universe."Kalla notes that initial changes in the Sapy will likely trigger material changes across many fund managers&rsquo; portfolios as their benchmarks may be adjusted, which could create short-term trading opportunities. "However, the real opportunity is more strategic and long term in nature as the greater liquidity and more efficient stock allocation should enhance the quality of investment portfolios in light of risk and return."However, Kalla believes out of the three new indices proposed by the JSE the Alpi is the most appropriate to replace the Sapy. "The SA Reit Index would be an attractive yielding index with a strong South African bias but we feel it would be somewhat limited and quite homogeneous with little opportunity for adequate diversification. It would also have much higher concentration risk than the current Sapy."Similarly, Kalla notes that while the Tradable Property Index would be appropriate for tracker funds, it&rsquo;s also limiting with regards to choice and could push companies to chase size and liquidity at the expense of earnings."We believe the Alpi should be the primary index that replaces the Sapy as it incorporates more choice and simultaneously lowers concentration risk."Kalla says they do, however, believe the Alpi needs to be tweaked. "In order to ensure that the new Sapy remains relevant as both a South African and a listed property/Reit benchmark, we believe the constituents should be limited to 25. We are of the view that inclusions should be relevant and tradable. The &lsquo;tail&rsquo; of the index at 30 constituents is small and subject to price movements on very small and infrequent trades."In addition, Kalla believes the maximum weight of any stock that is not a South African Reit should be limited to 5%. "This will ensure that the Sapy remains relevant as both a listed property/Reit as well as a South African benchmark as companies that do not pay a dividend, such as developers, as well as those domiciled outside of SA will have a capped exposure in the index."