Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa will not support calls for the removal of embattled Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini&sbquo; saying only President Jacob Zuma was in a position to evaluate a minister&rsquo;s performance.Ramaphosa was answering a wide range of questions in the National Assembly on Thursday&sbquo; including questions about the social grant crisis facing Dlamini and her department. He encouraged MPs to allow the department and ministry time to resolve the problems at the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa).Ramaphosa said the entire social grant debacle was being dealt with by the Constitutional Court. "Members of the executive are evaluated by the President who appoints them. The President evaluates the Deputy President and members of the executive on an ongoing basis. In his hand rests the power to appoint &mdash; and do otherwise," he said. "It really belongs to realm of presidential prerogative and it&rsquo;s the President only who can do so."His response was prompted by questions from DA leader Mmusi Maimane and UDM leader Bantu Holomisa. "There is a point, as South Africans, to stand on the side of the poor. Would you support the call to say Minister Dlamini should, in fact, resign for this crisis over social grants?" asked Maimane.Holomisa said Dlamini&rsquo;s performance during a meeting with the standing committee on public accounts earlier this week had gone beyond "undermining the National Assembly" and brought the "executive and country into disrepute". "Would you advise the President to consider evaluating [her] fitness to hold office? The same woman who, when we asked about deductions [of social grants]&sbquo; said she was investigating, yet it&rsquo;s part of the agreement with Cash Paymaster Services. When are you evaluating her?" asked Holomisa.Maimane also asked Ramaphosa how many times he had arranged with Dlamini to appear before the portfolio committee on social development since his appointment in May 2014&sbquo; as the leader of government business&sbquo; responsible for arranging attendance of Cabinet members.Ramaphosa said that in terms of the Constitution&sbquo; members of the Cabinet are accountable collectively and individually to Parliament for the exercise of powers and performance of their functions. "The National Assembly and Parliament have much more over-riding powers than the leader of government business because here we&rsquo;re talking about what the Constitution sets out. The Constitution gives us as Parliament the power to make members of the executive accountable to us as a collective&sbquo;" he said, adding that the executive remained committed to accounting "regularly and effectively" to Parliament.TMG Digital/The Times