"Why do they hate us?" Former US president George Bush famously postured this question to the US public shortly after the 9/11 attacks. And in a strong pronouncement of the power of propaganda, he replied: "They hate our freedoms &mdash; our freedom of religion, our freedom of speech, our freedom to vote and assemble and disagree with each other."Contrary to what the "they hate our freedom" notion might hint at, Muslims do not endorse or insist on changes to Western culture or social standards. Rather they call on the West to show greater respect for Islam, and they emphasise policy-related issues. Muslims insist on a shift in the foreign policy of the US rather than principles. Western foreign policies of interventionism, unqualified support for Israel, and protection for dictatorial Arab regimes are issues that irk all Muslims.The question: Why do people hate America? is a loaded question. It assumes that the US is the object of a massive hate campaign. It assumes that this hatred flows in one direction only and the US is a benevolent, caring society. To arrive at a meaningful answer, the question must be placed in a broader historical context.Most Westerners&rsquo; first encounter with Islam and Muslims occurred with the Iranian Revolution in 1978 and the taking of American hostages. After 9/11 the interest in Islam grew exponentially. Most if not all the negative news headlines were dominated by Muslims so much so that Muslims have become guilty until proven innocent, a complete turnaround of the basis of the Western legal system.John Esposito and Dalia Mogahed reported in their works &mdash; Who Speaks for Islam? What a Billion Muslims Really Think &mdash; that almost all Muslims have no desire to destroy Western democracy. In fact Muslims identify with these Western values of democracy because Islam and democracy are overwhelmingly compatible. In a survey conducted over a period of six years (2001-2007), more than 90% of the world&rsquo;s 1.3-billion Muslims cite the equal importance of their religion and democracy as essentials to their quality of life.Since his inauguration, President Donald Trump has shown that he intends to continue the US&rsquo;s "war on Islam". How will he accomplish this? He simply has to view Islam as the cause for radicalism, extremism and terrorism. He simply has to behave as an ignorant and arrogant interventionist.Trump is ignorant of the fact that Muslims do not give a damn about his liberties, lifestyle, freedoms or elections. He has been told, as were his predecessors, that what raises anti-US sentiments is the US and Western governments&rsquo; foreign policies in the Muslim world. Foremost among these is their support for Muslim tyrannies, US military presence in Muslim lands and US unqualified support for Zionist Israel. He is also ignorant of the fact that Muslims are driven less by hatred for the West than the West&rsquo;s hatred for Islam and Muslims.Trump should rather improve relations with the Muslim world than treating Muslims and Arabs as inferior and second-rate humans. His arrogant approach in banning Muslims from his country portrays the 45th president of the US as being rude, crude and impolite. It goes without saying that any group stripped of its humanity will be seen as having no human worth, with no human rights. Such a demonised group does not deserve the protection that other humans are entitled to under international law. Such an arrogant approach helps powerful governments and military alliances, and their media outlets, to justify the bombing and killing of civilians and the denial of the human rights of the demonised group. Once demonised and stripped of their humanity, it not only makes it easier for the battlefield solider to kill the "faceless, nonhuman Muslim enemy", it is also easier to indiscriminately kill any member of "the enemy".Muslims are admirers of the technological advances made by the West coupled with their work ethics. This should not be translated as eagerness by the Muslims to adopt Western models of democracy.Trump will fool no Muslims. He should not interpret Muslim abhorrence of Western foreign policies and interventionism as Muslim hatred for Western-style democracy and freedoms.The inevitable need for more wars in Muslim lands must be seen by Americans for what they are: the price of an ignorant, arrogant interventionism that will ruin not only the US&rsquo;s economy and domestic cohesion, but its children&rsquo;s future prosperity and security.George Bush&rsquo;s mantra of "they hate our freedom and democracy" has no empirical basis whatsoever. Robert Pape&rsquo;s study, Dying to win: The logic of Suicide Terrorism, showed the US intervention in the Muslim world is a key factor in suicide attacks on US interests. Western claims that poverty, illiteracy and unemployment lead to terrorism have long been disproved. The truth is easy to establish on the basis of hard facts, but hard for Americans to see, because their leaders blatantly distort the truth or simply ignore it.Seen in perspective, Trump&rsquo;s domestic war on terrorism is more about creating and maintaining an exhibition of fear. During the Cold War era, the US public was fed a constant dose of paranoia and fear of a supposed Russian nuclear attack. In this era of the war on Islam and Muslims, we see the colour-coded "terror threat levels" (now phased out) serve a similar purpose by creating the show of terrorism. Included in this is the media coverage of "foiled terror plots" orchestrated by the law enforcement organisations that serve to support this situation.It is not about Islam and Muslims. It never was. It is about invading, bombing and occupying Muslim lands.&bull; Vawda is an executive member of the Media Review Network, an advocacy group based in Johannesburg.