London &mdash; Gold prices steadied on Tuesday as expectations of a US Fed interest-rate rise boosted the dollar and political risk in Europe kept losses in check by boosting the metal&rsquo;s safe-haven appeal.The dollar index firmed about 0.3%, making dollar-priced gold costlier for non-US investors. With a Fed rate increase seen as a done deal, investor focus is shifting to what message the US central bank will deliver after its meeting on Wednesday. In December, the Fed forecast three rate rises this year.Gold is highly sensitive to rising US interest rates as these increase the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding bullion while boosting the dollar in which it is priced.Spot gold was mostly unchanged at $1,203.42 an ounce at 10.55am GMT. US gold futures were also steady at $1,203. ABN Amro analyst Georgette Boele said: "We see some stabilisation (in gold). The Fed hikes are roughly priced in. Real yields are not rising that fast, therefore gold is protected on the downside."Gold hit a five-week low on Friday, but recovered after a US nonfarm payrolls report failed to meet elevated expectations, weighing on the dollar. Gold&rsquo;s quick recovery underlined its resilience, said Boele.Elsewhere, investors are focusing on Wednesday&rsquo;s Dutch election. Some say the anti-Islam Party for Freedom has little chance of taking power, but a strong election performance for the populist group would fuel worries over a surprise result in French presidential elections in April and May. In Britain, there is mounting concern about a second Scottish independence referendum and the triggering of article 50 to formally begin Brexit talks to exit the EU.Spot gold is still targeting $1,193 an ounce, as suggested by its wave pattern and a Fibonacci ratio analysis, according to Reuters technical analyst Wang Tao. "Leading into Wednesday&rsquo;s (Fed) decision, participants will be looking for gold to initially hold $1,200, while below this broad interest around $1,190-$1,195 is expected to restrict further declines," said MKS PAMP Group trader Sam Laughlin.Holdings of the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest gold-backed exchange-traded fund, firmed 0.83% on Monday while silver edged up 0.1% to $16.95 an ounce. Platinum was flat at $935.99 an ounce. Palladium eased 0.27% to $749.80.Reuters