Milan &mdash; Markets wincing at every twist in Marine Le Pen&rsquo;s electoral fortunes have helped revive political risk in the heart of the eurozone. Yet they may be overlooking a more subtle threat to bondholders, in the form of billionaire Silvio Berlusconi&rsquo;s comeback plan.At the age of 80, the three-time prime minister and media mogul is seeking to overturn a ban from public office and dip his toes back into in the country&rsquo;s political arena. That he&rsquo;s doing so amid a rupture in the Italian left means analysts are starting to take his candidacy seriously &mdash; and with it, his proposal to introduce a parallel currency."The return of Forza Italia and, by extension, Berlusconi is a genuine concern, especially since the Democratic Party appears to be splitting into two," said James Athey, fixed income portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset Management in London. "Forcing a parallel fiscal currency is very difficult to do without strict capital controls &mdash; but not impossible."&lsquo;Most persecuted&rsquo;The ambitions of the self-described "most persecuted man in history" depend on the result of an appeal making its way through the European Court of Human Rights. Berlusconi is seeking to overturn a ban on running for public office that was the result of his 2013 tax-fraud conviction.If he succeeds, it puts a Le Pen-esque plan on the agenda in another one of the eurozone&rsquo;s biggest economies. A key difference with France, as Bloomberg Intelligence analysts wrote last week, is that in Italy there is broad public antipathy towards the single currency. That&rsquo;s why economists, including Deutsche Bank&rsquo;s Marco Stringa, are calling Italy, not France or Greece, the "main risk" to eurozone stability. The country&rsquo;s 10-year bonds have sold off faster than those of any developed-world peer so far in 2017. They&rsquo;ve been helped on their way by the ascendance of the Five Star Movement which, unlike Berlusconi, seeks to leave the eurozone outright.That&rsquo;s awakened the spectre of re-denomination, and revived a forgotten corner of Europe&rsquo;s bond market. While the proposal faces obstacles that range from the legal to the electoral, derivatives traders are factoring the risk into credit-default swaps more than ever &mdash; paying a premium of almost 40 basis points on 2014-vintage contracts, which offer greater protection against the re-denomination of Italian debt compared with older equivalents.Right-wing allianceWith elections scheduled next year and polls pointing to a hung parliament, Berlusconi and Democratic Party opponent Matteo Renzi could unite around shared hopes of obstructing the Five Star Movement, whose leaders promise to hold a non-binding referendum on eurozone withdrawal.Berlusconi may also target voters at the other end of the political spectrum, galvanised by rising euro-scepticism in the country whose citizens have stronger misgivings about the single currency than any other member of the bloc. His recent pitch to bring the lira back into circulation suggests he s not taking any chances.The politician spoke of re-introducing the currency in last month s interview with la Repubblica newspaper, echoing a plan mooted by France s Le Pen. He said he s discussed his idea with academics, and that when his mother sent him to the grocery store after the Second World War he paid in a parallel currency the allied-military lira which "worked very well".While he drew a line at leaving the bloc altogether, the former premier s proposal was designed to appeal to a centre-right that s found new focus in the anti-euro, anti-immigrant Northern League leader Matteo Salvini. The market is failing to factor in the possibility that the 44-year-old might become Berlusconi s partner in a centre-right coalition determined to introduce a parallel currency, Mediobanca said on February 27.Anti-euro sentimentSalvini s Northern League is neck-and-neck with Berlusconi s Forza Italia in polls, with both attracting about 15% of the vote. More than half of centre-right voters support a eurozone exit, according to a poll last month by Index Research.Usage of the term "re-denomination risk" was higher in February within stories and analysts reports collected by Bloomberg than in any month since 2012 s eurozone crisis. It s a risk financial markets may have already started discounting, said Lorenzo Codogno, founder of LC Macro Advisors. The probability of Italy leaving the eurozone remains low, he said in a February 27 note, "but is rising".Bloomberg